Ever since I read it over a year go, I've been meaning to write a review of Thomas Chatterton Williams' <i>Self-Portrait in Black and White: Unlearning Race</i>. Williams centers his memoir around the birth of his first child, a daughter named Marlow. Williams is the son of a black man from Houston and a white woman. His father was careful to teach his sons that the world would treat them as black. Williams grew up and ended up marrying a white, French woman, and prepared himself to pass on his father's wisdom to his own children. But Marlow entered the world with golden hair and fair skin, throwing Williams' 
Williams spends the book wrestling with the category of "black"

I find myself stretched between two ends of a seeming paradox. One one end I see an erasure of the significance with which we instill the differences between us. We at long last wrench the power of creation from the gods and remake ourselves, cutting away the language and concepts which hold us in chains, chains we inherited from a less-enlightened era when men enshrined the variance of human existence, crowning themselves lords of the earth. The curtains have been pulled back on the dichotomies of sacred and profane, white and black, man and woman, us and them, I and you. Here, the people have finally listened when the emperor told them he was wearing no clothes. They have opened their eyes, cast him out, and crossed the imaginary lines separating neighbors.
And yet I am pulled back, burdened by the weight of history, by the shear momentum of millennia of fear and hate, and by the codification and bureaucratization of asymmetric power distributions. The injustices of the past have bled into the inequities of the present. We attempt to break the silence of silenced voices, to center the marginalized, to revamp the notion of rights so they are indeed rights after all. We glorify the differences between us. But therein lies the rub.
How do we lift up those differences and simultaneously divest them of the power to divide us? How do we draw more and more lines in the sand without our monkey brains turning those lines into walls?
In situations like this I often return the advice of my quantum physics professor: check your limits. Both when devising a mathematical model and when thinking about human society, taking our ideas and plans to their extremes can be a useful heuristic. Does the model behave as it's supposed to as the independent variables goes to infinity? What does it do as it approaches zero? Analogously, what happens to our current thinking when we follow it to its possible ends?
