The first activity to which I have returned after being fully vaccinated is playing poker at the local card room. I've been reading books, soaking in podcasts, and taking online courses in most scraps of my free time. Overall I've done fairly well. Every cash game session has been a winning one. I busted in a small tournament, but I was mostly card dead the entire time, so I've chalked that one up to the variance gods.
When you're so fully absorbed in something, it begins to bleed into other areas of thought. 

Variance
I couldn't count the number of times I've seen a player hit one of only two cards in the deck to save them and exclaim, "The poker gods must be smiling on me tonight." The poker gods, lady luck, the one raw thing a poker player has no control over. You can influence what your opponent does and what cards they tend to show up with through your actions at the table. For example, bet sizing can influence which hands they call with: bet too large and only hands that beat you will call, bet too small and you give the draws too good a price to fold, letting them see the next card for cheap and possibly make the winning hand. But those cards in your hand, those in your opponents, and the ones to come on the board, those you have no control over.
I was sitting next to a guy a week ago who folded ace-queen after I raised him because "hated that hand" and "never hits with it". Last year a guy I played with kept switching his bracelets from one wrist to another and then to his pocket, trying to figure out what was "throwing things off". I've hardly met a more superstitious lot than poker players.
But in other ways I sympathize with these sacrifices to the gods of poker. We have so little actual control over the raw stuff of our lives: we were all forced to play the genetic lottery, given no choice over our parents or their income level or their amount of involvement in our lives. We didn't choose our teachers or our aptitudes, our desires or our deficiencies. We can take actions to mitigate risk of injury or sickness, but every car accident or cancer diagnosis could have been us instead. These things always happen to someone else, until they don't.
In statistics, variance measures the spread of a set of numbers around the set's average (it's the square of the standard deviation). A large variance means that individual measurements are all over the place, that you have a relatively similar chance of falling anywhere along the spectrum. A low variance means that most of the measurements are clustered around the average, that it's much more rare to be very above or below average.
